---
title: Books and essays, mostly
tags: [List, Book recommendations, Notes]
style: default
color: primary
description: Book list and notes
date: 24-07-2020
updated: 24-07-2020
---

This is for me to list out books and essays I've been reading, as well as short takeaways from them where relevant. I'm gonna also try to write about the books I've already read slowly. This is mostly to organise my reading habits and takeaways from books in one palce as right now everything is scattered here and there. This might also give me an incentive to read more.

**Currently reading:**
- The Plague
- Probably Approximately Correct

**What I plan on reading next:**
- Enlightenment Now: The Case for Reason, Science, Humanism, and Progress
- Chaos Monkeys
- Anxious People

## Notes

### The Plague
*By Albert Camus*

I was recently asked "If I could have dinner with anyone, dead or alive, who would it be?" My two choices were Camus and Feynmann (duh!)
What struck me most while reading the book was how slow social development of humans has been, when compared to technological development. It makes sense, since social patterns are emergent behaviour and it would take a lot of effort to change the system enough to observe a change. This book was written in 1947, and the description is probably from that time. It was fun to compare people's behaviour during the COVID-19 pandemic vs. people's behaviour in the book. Compare that with the rapid development of vaccines, processing of viral genome, etc. that happened during the COVID.

I was recently reading [Limits to Growth](https://web.ics.purdue.edu/~wggray/Teaching/His300/Illustrations/Limits-to-Growth.pdf),

### Probably Approximately Correct
*By Leslie Valiant*

### Shoe Dog
*By Phil Knight*

Shoe Dog is a must read. It's exciting, energizing, absolutely fantastic. I planned on reading it slowly, actually ended up reading all of it over a weekend. His life has been a roller coster ride, and he did a fantastic job in turning it into a book. The book is summarised well by something that my grandfather says very often when recalling some of his life's stories to he: *"Paise se hi paisa aata hai"* which basically means it takes money to make money.

### Poor Economics
*By Abhijit V. Banerjee and Esther Duflo*

### Why Nations Fail
*By Daron Acemoglu and James Robinson*

### Tuesdays with Morrie
*By Mitch Albom*

I don't read a lot of self help books since they are not really my type. I think they all say the same things in a different manner, very much inflated in terms of numebr of pages to make it seem necessary, and can be summarised well in some short blog. Some decide to add in some fiction, and the story makes it more readable. I decided to give this one a try since I got it recommended by too many people. The story is heartwarming and the character of Morrie is really interesting in terms of personality and his outlook to life can certainly add a lot of value to mine.

## Reading List

- The armchair economist
- The undercover economist
- How the mighty fall
- The Reign of Wolf 21: The Saga of Yellowstone’s Legendary Druid Pack
- Chaos Monkeys
- Brain Bugs: How the Brain’s Flaws Shape our Lives
- A new kind of science
- Uncle Petros and Goldbach's Conjecture
- South of the Border, West of the Sun by Haruki Murakami
- The Selfish Gene, by Richard Dawkins
- Quantum Computing Since Democritus
- The Beginning of Infinity, by David Deutsch
- Superintelligence, by Nick Bostrom


